UPDATE_SUMMARY.md, before:

# Project Update Summary

**Date:** February 16, 2026  
**Phase:** Foundation Implementation (Phases 1-3 from ROADMAP)  
**Status:** ✅ Complete

## Overview

The pdsno project has been updated to align the codebase with the comprehensive documentation that was recently completed. This update implements the foundational architecture specified in the documentation, establishing the base classes, data layer, and communication infrastructure.

---

## What Was Updated

### 1. ✅ Requirements & Dependencies

**File:** `requirements.txt`

**Changes:**
- Added all required dependencies for Phase 1-5 development
- Includes: pytest, pyyaml, filelock, paho-mqtt, requests, flask
- Added cryptography libraries (PyNaCl for Ed25519)
- Added development tools (black, flake8, mypy)

**Rationale:** Phase 1.1 of ROADMAP specifies dependencies needed for environment setup.

---

### 2. ✅ Core Base Classes

**File:** `pdsno/core/base_class.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `AlgorithmBase` class following `docs/algorithm_lifecycle.md` specification
- Changed `execute()` signature from `execute(data)` to `execute()` (no parameters)
- Added lifecycle state tracking (`_initialized`, `_executed`)
- Added runtime checks to enforce proper lifecycle ordering
- Comprehensive docstrings matching documentation

**Rationale:** The documented algorithm pattern requires `execute()` to use state from `initialize()`, not take parameters directly. This is a fundamental architectural pattern.

**Breaking Change:** Yes - any existing algorithms using `execute(data)` need updating.

---

### 3. ✅ Controller Layer

**File:** `pdsno/controllers/base_controller.py`

**Changes:**
- Complete rewrite to match ROADMAP Phase 2.3 specification
- Added dependency injection for `ContextManager` and `NIBStore`
- Implemented `load_algorithm()` and `run_algorithm()` methods
- Integrated structured logging with controller ID
- Added context management convenience methods
- Removed hardcoded instantiations (now uses dependency injection)

**Key Methods:**
- `load_algorithm(algorithm_class)` - Instantiate algorithms
- `run_algorithm(algorithm, context)` - Execute full lifecycle with logging
- `get_context()`, `set_context()`, `update_context()` - Context operations

**Rationale:** Controllers should be stateless and orchestrate algorithms, not implement logic directly.

---

### 4. ✅ Context Management

**File:** `pdsno/controllers/context_manager.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `ContextManager` class per ROADMAP Phase 2.2
- Thread-safe file locking using `filelock` library
- Atomic writes (write to temp file, then rename)
- YAML-based storage for `context_runtime.yaml`
- Methods: `read()`, `write()`, `update()`, `get()`, `set()`

**Rationale:** Prevents corruption from concurrent access and system crashes mid-write.

---

### 5. ✅ Data Layer (NIB)

**Files:**
- `pdsno/datastore/models.py` (NEW)
- `pdsno/datastore/sqlite_store.py`

**Changes:**

#### models.py (NEW)
- Created dataclasses for all NIB entities: `Device`, `Config`, `Policy`, `Event`, `Lock`, `Controller`
- Enum types: `DeviceStatus`, `ConfigStatus`, `LockType`
- `NIBResult` for operation results
- Automatic timezone-aware datetime handling

#### sqlite_store.py
- Complete implementation of `NIBStore` per `docs/nib_spec.md`
- Six core tables: devices, configs, policies, events, locks, controllers
- Optimistic locking (version-based conflict detection)
- Immutable event log (database triggers prevent UPDATE/DELETE)
- HMAC signatures for event integrity
- Lock acquisition/release with TTL

**Key Operations:**
- `upsert_device()` - Insert/update with conflict detection
- `write_event()` - Append-only audit log
- `acquire_lock()`, `release_lock()`, `check_lock()` - Coordination

**Rationale:** Implements the NIB specification exactly as documented, enabling controller coordination and auditability.

---

### 6. ✅ Communication Layer

**Files:**
- `pdsno/communication/message_format.py`
- `pdsno/communication/rest_api.py`

**Changes:**

#### message_format.py
- Implemented `MessageEnvelope` (standard message wrapper)
- `MessageType` enum with all documented types
- Message dataclasses: `ValidationRequest`, `Challenge`, `ChallengeResponse`, `ValidationResult`
- Serialization/deserialization methods

#### rest_api.py
- `RESTClient` for synchronous HTTP-based controller communication
- Message sending with automatic envelope wrapping
- Timeout and error handling

**Rationale:** Implements the communication model from `docs/communication_model.md` and message formats from `docs/api_reference.md`.

---

### 7. ✅ Logging Framework

**File:** `pdsno/logging/logger.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented structured JSON logging per ROADMAP Phase 1.3
- `StructuredFormatter` outputs JSON with timestamp, level, controller_id, message
- `get_logger()` function for consistent logger creation
- Support for extra fields in log entries

**Output Format:**
```json
{
  "timestamp": "2026-02-16T...",
  "level": "INFO",
  "controller_id": "local_cntl_1",
  "message": "Device discovered",
  "module": "discovery",
  "function": "scan_subnet"
}
```

**Rationale:** Production systems need structured logs for parsing, filtering, and analysis.

---

### 8. ✅ Utilities

**File:** `pdsno/utils/config_loader.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `ConfigLoader` class for YAML configuration loading
- Validation of required keys
- Environment variable override support (e.g., `pdsno_CONTROLLER_ID`)
- Clear error messages for missing/invalid configs

---

### 9. ✅ Test Infrastructure

**Files:**
- `tests/conftest.py`
- `tests/test_base_classes.py` (NEW)
- `tests/test_datastore.py` (NEW)

**Changes:**

#### conftest.py
- Pytest fixtures for common test resources
- `temp_dir` - Temporary directory cleanup
- `context_manager` - Test context manager instance
- `nib_store` - Test NIB instance
- `base_controller` - Test controller instance

#### test_base_classes.py (NEW)
- Tests for `AlgorithmBase` lifecycle enforcement
- Tests for `BaseController` operations
- Validates lifecycle ordering (initialize before execute, etc.)

#### test_datastore.py (NEW)
- Tests for NIB operations
- Device insert/retrieve
- Optimistic locking conflict detection
- Event log writes
- Lock acquire/release

**Coverage:**
- Algorithm lifecycle pattern ✓
- Controller orchestration ✓
- NIB operations ✓
- Optimistic locking ✓
- Event logging ✓
- Lock coordination ✓

---

### 10. ✅ Package Structure

**Files:** All `__init__.py` files

**Changes:**
- Added proper imports to all `__init__.py` files
- Enables clean imports: `from pdsno.datastore import NIBStore`
- Documented module purposes
- Defined `__all__` exports

**Before:**
```python
from pdsno.datastore.sqlite_store import NIBStore  # Verbose
```

**After:**
```python
from pdsno.datastore import NIBStore  # Clean
```

---

### 11. ✅ Examples

**Files:**
- `examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py` (NEW)
- `examples/nib_store_usage.py` (NEW)
- `examples/README.md` (NEW)

**Changes:**
- Created `examples/` directory with working demonstrations
- Shows algorithm lifecycle pattern in action
- Shows NIB operations (CRUD, locking, events)
- Documented and ready to run

---

### 12. ✅ Entry Point

**File:** `pdsno/main.py`

**Changes:**
- Added proper entry point with status summary
- Lists implemented components
- Provides next steps for users
- Placeholder for full CLI (Phase 4+)

---

## Architectural Alignment

### Alignment with Documentation

| Documentation | Implementation Status |
|---------------|----------------------|
| `docs/algorithm_lifecycle.md` | ✅ Fully implemented in `AlgorithmBase` |
| `docs/nib_spec.md` | ✅ SQLite backend complete with all 6 tables |
| `docs/api_reference.md` | ✅ Message types and envelope implemented |
| `docs/communication_model.md` | ✅ REST client and message format done |
| `docs/PROJECT_OVERVIEW.md` | ✅ Base classes match architectural model |
| `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` Phase 1-3 | ✅ Complete |

### What's Still TODO (Per ROADMAP)

**Phase 0** (Documentation):
- Some docs still marked `[~]` (in progress) need completion

**Phase 4** (Controller Validation):
- Message bus implementation
- Validation logic (challenge-response flow)
- Global/Regional controller implementations
- Simulation script

**Phase 5+** (Discovery, Config Approval, etc.):
- Device discovery module
- Config approval workflow
- Policy distribution
- Integration with real network devices

---

## Testing Status

### Running Tests

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run all tests
python -m pytest

# Run with coverage
python -m pytest --cov=pdsno --cov-report=html
```

### Expected Test Results

All tests should pass:
- ✅ Algorithm lifecycle tests
- ✅ Base controller tests
- ✅ NIB store tests (device operations, locking, events)
- ✅ Import tests

---

## Breaking Changes

### For Existing Code

1. **AlgorithmBase.execute() signature changed**
   - Old: `execute(self, data)`
   - New: `execute(self)` - uses instance state from `initialize()`
   - **Action Required:** Update any custom algorithms

2. **BaseController constructor changed**
   - Old: `BaseController(name)`
   - New: `BaseController(controller_id, role, context_manager, region=None)`
   - **Action Required:** Update controller instantiations

3. **ContextBuilder → ContextManager**
   - Old class name: `ContextBuilder`
   - New class name: `ContextManager`
   - Legacy alias provided for compatibility

---

## Migration Guide

### For Algorithm Developers

**Old Pattern:**
```python
class MyAlgorithm(BaseClass):
    def execute(self, data):
        result = data['value'] * 2
        return result
```

**New Pattern:**
```python
class MyAlgorithm(AlgorithmBase):
    def initialize(self, context):
        self.value = context['value']
        self._initialized = True
    
    def execute(self):
        super().execute()  # Validates lifecycle
        self.result = self.value * 2
        self._executed = True
        return self.result
    
    def finalize(self):
        super().finalize()  # Validates lifecycle
        return {
            "status": "complete",
            "timestamp": datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat(),
            "result": self.result
        }
```

### For Controller Developers

**Old Pattern:**
```python
controller = BaseController("my_controller")
```

**New Pattern:**
```python
from pdsno.controllers import BaseController, ContextManager

context_mgr = ContextManager("config/context_runtime.yaml")
controller = BaseController(
    controller_id="my_controller_1",
    role="local",
    context_manager=context_mgr,
    region="zone-A"
)
```

---

## Next Steps

### For Developers

1. **Review Examples:**
   ```bash
   python examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py
   python examples/nib_store_usage.py
   ```

2. **Run Tests:**
   ```bash
   python -m pytest
   ```

3. **Review Documentation:**
   - Start with `docs/INDEX.md`
   - Read `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` for what's next

4. **Continue Development:**
   - Phase 4: Controller validation flow
   - Phase 5: Discovery module
   - See ROADMAP for details

### For Project Maintainers

1. **Update Phase 0 tasks** in ROADMAP to mark completed docs as `[x]`
2. **Update Phase 1-3 tasks** in ROADMAP to mark completed items as `[x]`
3. **Review and test** on a clean environment
4. **Update CI/CD** if applicable to run new tests

---

## File Summary

### New Files Created (11)
- `pdsno/datastore/models.py`
- `pdsno/utils/config_loader.py`
- `tests/test_base_classes.py`
- `tests/test_datastore.py`
- `examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py`
- `examples/nib_store_usage.py`
- `examples/README.md`
- `UPDATE_SUMMARY.md` (this file)

### Files Significantly Modified (13)
- `requirements.txt`
- `pdsno/core/base_class.py`
- `pdsno/controllers/base_controller.py`
- `pdsno/controllers/context_manager.py`
- `pdsno/datastore/sqlite_store.py`
- `pdsno/communication/message_format.py`
- `pdsno/communication/rest_api.py`
- `pdsno/logging/logger.py`
- `pdsno/main.py`
- All `__init__.py` files (7 files)
- `tests/conftest.py`

### Total Files Changed: 24

---

## Verification Checklist

- [x] All imports work correctly
- [x] Tests are passing
- [x] Examples run without errors
- [x] Documentation references are accurate
- [x] Code follows documented specifications
- [x] Logging outputs structured JSON
- [x] NIB operations work with optimistic locking
- [x] ContextManager prevents file corruption
- [x] Algorithm lifecycle enforces proper ordering

---

## Contact & Support

For questions about these updates:
1. Review `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` for architectural context
2. Check `examples/` for usage patterns
3. See `docs/INDEX.md` for documentation navigation
4. Run tests to validate your environment: `python -m pytest`

---

**Status:** ✅ Foundation Complete - Ready for Phase 4 Development

Commit message:

feat: enhance .gitignore, update testing results, and migrate to FastAPI

UPDATE_SUMMARY.md, after:

# Project Update Summary

**Date:** February 16, 2026  
**Phase:** Foundation Implementation (Phases 1-3 from ROADMAP)  
**Status:** ✅ Complete

## Overview

The pdsno project has been updated to align the codebase with the comprehensive documentation that was recently completed. This update implements the foundational architecture specified in the documentation, establishing the base classes, data layer, and communication infrastructure.

---

## What Was Updated

### 1. ✅ Requirements & Dependencies

**File:** `requirements.txt`

**Changes:**
- Added all required dependencies for Phase 1-5 development
- Includes: pytest, pyyaml, filelock, paho-mqtt, requests, fastapi, uvicorn
- Added cryptography libraries (PyNaCl for Ed25519)
- Added development tools (black, flake8, mypy)
- Migrated from Flask to FastAPI for better async support and performance

**Rationale:** Phase 1.1 of ROADMAP specifies dependencies needed for environment setup.

---

### 2. ✅ Core Base Classes

**File:** `pdsno/core/base_class.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `AlgorithmBase` class following `docs/algorithm_lifecycle.md` specification
- Changed `execute()` signature from `execute(data)` to `execute()` (no parameters)
- Added lifecycle state tracking (`_initialized`, `_executed`)
- Added runtime checks to enforce proper lifecycle ordering
- Comprehensive docstrings matching documentation

**Rationale:** The documented algorithm pattern requires `execute()` to use state from `initialize()`, not take parameters directly. This is a fundamental architectural pattern.

**Breaking Change:** Yes - any existing algorithms using `execute(data)` need updating.

---

### 3. ✅ Controller Layer

**File:** `pdsno/controllers/base_controller.py`

**Changes:**
- Complete rewrite to match ROADMAP Phase 2.3 specification
- Added dependency injection for `ContextManager` and `NIBStore`
- Implemented `load_algorithm()` and `run_algorithm()` methods
- Integrated structured logging with controller ID
- Added context management convenience methods
- Removed hardcoded instantiations (now uses dependency injection)

**Key Methods:**
- `load_algorithm(algorithm_class)` - Instantiate algorithms
- `run_algorithm(algorithm, context)` - Execute full lifecycle with logging
- `get_context()`, `set_context()`, `update_context()` - Context operations

**Rationale:** Controllers should be stateless and orchestrate algorithms, not implement logic directly.

---

### 4. ✅ Context Management

**File:** `pdsno/controllers/context_manager.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `ContextManager` class per ROADMAP Phase 2.2
- Thread-safe file locking using `filelock` library
- Atomic writes (write to temp file, then rename)
- YAML-based storage for `context_runtime.yaml`
- Methods: `read()`, `write()`, `update()`, `get()`, `set()`

**Rationale:** Prevents corruption from concurrent access and system crashes mid-write.

---

### 5. ✅ Data Layer (NIB)

**Files:**
- `pdsno/datastore/models.py` (NEW)
- `pdsno/datastore/sqlite_store.py`

**Changes:**

#### models.py (NEW)
- Created dataclasses for all NIB entities: `Device`, `Config`, `Policy`, `Event`, `Lock`, `Controller`
- Enum types: `DeviceStatus`, `ConfigStatus`, `LockType`
- `NIBResult` for operation results
- Automatic timezone-aware datetime handling

#### sqlite_store.py
- Complete implementation of `NIBStore` per `docs/nib_spec.md`
- Six core tables: devices, configs, policies, events, locks, controllers
- Optimistic locking (version-based conflict detection)
- Immutable event log (database triggers prevent UPDATE/DELETE)
- HMAC signatures for event integrity
- Lock acquisition/release with TTL

**Key Operations:**
- `upsert_device()` - Insert/update with conflict detection
- `write_event()` - Append-only audit log
- `acquire_lock()`, `release_lock()`, `check_lock()` - Coordination

**Rationale:** Implements the NIB specification exactly as documented, enabling controller coordination and auditability.

---

### 6. ✅ Communication Layer

**Files:**
- `pdsno/communication/message_format.py`
- `pdsno/communication/rest_api.py`

**Changes:**

#### message_format.py
- Implemented `MessageEnvelope` (standard message wrapper)
- `MessageType` enum with all documented types
- Message dataclasses: `ValidationRequest`, `Challenge`, `ChallengeResponse`, `ValidationResult`
- Serialization/deserialization methods

#### rest_api.py
- `RESTClient` for synchronous HTTP-based controller communication
- Message sending with automatic envelope wrapping
- Timeout and error handling

**Rationale:** Implements the communication model from `docs/communication_model.md` and message formats from `docs/api_reference.md`.

---

### 7. ✅ Logging Framework

**File:** `pdsno/logging/logger.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented structured JSON logging per ROADMAP Phase 1.3
- `StructuredFormatter` outputs JSON with timestamp, level, controller_id, message
- `get_logger()` function for consistent logger creation
- Support for extra fields in log entries

**Output Format:**
```json
{
  "timestamp": "2026-02-16T...",
  "level": "INFO",
  "controller_id": "local_cntl_1",
  "message": "Device discovered",
  "module": "discovery",
  "function": "scan_subnet"
}
```

**Rationale:** Production systems need structured logs for parsing, filtering, and analysis.

---

### 8. ✅ Utilities

**File:** `pdsno/utils/config_loader.py`

**Changes:**
- Implemented `ConfigLoader` class for YAML configuration loading
- Validation of required keys
- Environment variable override support (e.g., `pdsno_CONTROLLER_ID`)
- Clear error messages for missing/invalid configs

---

### 9. ✅ Test Infrastructure

**Files:**
- `tests/conftest.py`
- `tests/test_base_classes.py` (NEW)
- `tests/test_datastore.py` (NEW)

**Changes:**

#### conftest.py
- Pytest fixtures for common test resources
- `temp_dir` - Temporary directory cleanup
- `context_manager` - Test context manager instance
- `nib_store` - Test NIB instance
- `base_controller` - Test controller instance

#### test_base_classes.py (NEW)
- Tests for `AlgorithmBase` lifecycle enforcement
- Tests for `BaseController` operations
- Validates lifecycle ordering (initialize before execute, etc.)

#### test_datastore.py (NEW)
- Tests for NIB operations
- Device insert/retrieve
- Optimistic locking conflict detection
- Event log writes
- Lock acquire/release

**Coverage:**
- Algorithm lifecycle pattern ✓
- Controller orchestration ✓
- NIB operations ✓
- Optimistic locking ✓
- Event logging ✓
- Lock coordination ✓

---

### 10. ✅ Package Structure

**Files:** All `__init__.py` files

**Changes:**
- Added proper imports to all `__init__.py` files
- Enables clean imports: `from pdsno.datastore import NIBStore`
- Documented module purposes
- Defined `__all__` exports

**Before:**
```python
from pdsno.datastore.sqlite_store import NIBStore  # Verbose
```

**After:**
```python
from pdsno.datastore import NIBStore  # Clean
```

---

### 11. ✅ Examples

**Files:**
- `examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py` (NEW)
- `examples/nib_store_usage.py` (NEW)
- `examples/README.md` (NEW)

**Changes:**
- Created `examples/` directory with working demonstrations
- Shows algorithm lifecycle pattern in action
- Shows NIB operations (CRUD, locking, events)
- Documented and ready to run

---

### 12. ✅ Entry Point

**File:** `pdsno/main.py`

**Changes:**
- Added proper entry point with status summary
- Lists implemented components
- Provides next steps for users
- Placeholder for full CLI (Phase 4+)

---

## Architectural Alignment

### Alignment with Documentation

| Documentation | Implementation Status |
|---------------|----------------------|
| `docs/algorithm_lifecycle.md` | ✅ Fully implemented in `AlgorithmBase` |
| `docs/nib_spec.md` | ✅ SQLite backend complete with all 6 tables |
| `docs/api_reference.md` | ✅ Message types and envelope implemented |
| `docs/communication_model.md` | ✅ REST client and message format done |
| `docs/PROJECT_OVERVIEW.md` | ✅ Base classes match architectural model |
| `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` Phase 1-3 | ✅ Complete |

### What's Still TODO (Per ROADMAP)

**Phase 0** (Documentation):
- Some docs still marked `[~]` (in progress) need completion

**Phase 4** (Controller Validation):
- Message bus implementation
- Validation logic (challenge-response flow)
- Global/Regional controller implementations
- Simulation script

**Phase 5+** (Discovery, Config Approval, etc.):
- Device discovery module
- Config approval workflow
- Policy distribution
- Integration with real network devices

---

## Testing Status

### Running Tests

```bash
# Install dependencies
pip install -r requirements.txt

# Run all tests
python -m pytest

# Run with coverage
python -m pytest --cov=pdsno --cov-report=html
```

### Expected Test Results

All tests should pass:
- ✅ Algorithm lifecycle tests
- ✅ Base controller tests
- ✅ NIB store tests (device operations, locking, events)
- ✅ Import tests

---

## Breaking Changes

### For Existing Code

1. **AlgorithmBase.execute() signature changed**
   - Old: `execute(self, data)`
   - New: `execute(self)` - uses instance state from `initialize()`
   - **Action Required:** Update any custom algorithms

2. **BaseController constructor changed**
   - Old: `BaseController(name)`
   - New: `BaseController(controller_id, role, context_manager, region=None)`
   - **Action Required:** Update controller instantiations

3. **ContextBuilder → ContextManager**
   - Old class name: `ContextBuilder`
   - New class name: `ContextManager`
   - Legacy alias provided for compatibility

---

## Migration Guide

### For Algorithm Developers

**Old Pattern:**
```python
class MyAlgorithm(BaseClass):
    def execute(self, data):
        result = data['value'] * 2
        return result
```

**New Pattern:**
```python
class MyAlgorithm(AlgorithmBase):
    def initialize(self, context):
        self.value = context['value']
        self._initialized = True
    
    def execute(self):
        super().execute()  # Validates lifecycle
        self.result = self.value * 2
        self._executed = True
        return self.result
    
    def finalize(self):
        super().finalize()  # Validates lifecycle
        return {
            "status": "complete",
            "timestamp": datetime.now(timezone.utc).isoformat(),
            "result": self.result
        }
```

### For Controller Developers

**Old Pattern:**
```python
controller = BaseController("my_controller")
```

**New Pattern:**
```python
from pdsno.controllers import BaseController, ContextManager

context_mgr = ContextManager("config/context_runtime.yaml")
controller = BaseController(
    controller_id="my_controller_1",
    role="local",
    context_manager=context_mgr,
    region="zone-A"
)
```

---

## Next Steps

### For Developers

1. **Review Examples:**
   ```bash
   python examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py
   python examples/nib_store_usage.py
   ```

2. **Run Tests:**
   ```bash
   python -m pytest
   ```

3. **Review Documentation:**
   - Start with `docs/INDEX.md`
   - Read `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` for what's next

4. **Continue Development:**
   - Phase 4: Controller validation flow
   - Phase 5: Discovery module
   - See ROADMAP for details

### For Project Maintainers

1. **Update Phase 0 tasks** in ROADMAP to mark completed docs as `[x]`
2. **Update Phase 1-3 tasks** in ROADMAP to mark completed items as `[x]`
3. **Review and test** on a clean environment
4. **Update CI/CD** if applicable to run new tests

---

## File Summary

### New Files Created (11)
- `pdsno/datastore/models.py`
- `pdsno/utils/config_loader.py`
- `tests/test_base_classes.py`
- `tests/test_datastore.py`
- `examples/basic_algorithm_usage.py`
- `examples/nib_store_usage.py`
- `examples/README.md`
- `UPDATE_SUMMARY.md` (this file)

### Files Significantly Modified (13)
- `requirements.txt`
- `pdsno/core/base_class.py`
- `pdsno/controllers/base_controller.py`
- `pdsno/controllers/context_manager.py`
- `pdsno/datastore/sqlite_store.py`
- `pdsno/communication/message_format.py`
- `pdsno/communication/rest_api.py`
- `pdsno/logging/logger.py`
- `pdsno/main.py`
- All `__init__.py` files (7 files)
- `tests/conftest.py`

### Total Files Changed: 24

---

## Verification Checklist

- [x] All imports work correctly
- [x] Tests are passing
- [x] Examples run without errors
- [x] Documentation references are accurate
- [x] Code follows documented specifications
- [x] Logging outputs structured JSON
- [x] NIB operations work with optimistic locking
- [x] ContextManager prevents file corruption
- [x] Algorithm lifecycle enforces proper ordering

---

## Contact & Support

For questions about these updates:
1. Review `docs/ROADMAP_AND_TODO.md` for architectural context
2. Check `examples/` for usage patterns
3. See `docs/INDEX.md` for documentation navigation
4. Run tests to validate your environment: `python -m pytest`

---

**Status:** ✅ Foundation Complete - Ready for Phase 4 Development
